.\"
.\" SUSE man page for chkstat
.\"
.\" Author: Ruediger Oertel
.\"
.TH CHKSTAT 8 "2010-11-09" "SUSE Linux" "Tool to check and set file permissions"
.\"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
.\"
chkstat \- Tool to check and set file permissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B chkstat
.RB [OPTIONS]
.B <permission-files...>

.B chkstat
.RB \-\-system
.RB [OPTIONS]
.B <files...>
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.I /usr/bin/chkstat
is a tool to check and set file permissions.
.PP
chkstat can either operate in system mode or on individually
specified permission files. In system mode, \fI/etc/sysconfig/security\fR
determines which level to use and whether to actually apply
permission changes.
.PP
.\"
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.IR \-\-system
Run in system mode. Parses \fI/etc/sysconfig/security\fR to
determine which security level to use (\fIPERMISSION_SECURITY\fR)
and whether to set or merely warn about permission changes
(\fICHECK_PERMISSIONS\fR). In system mode non-option arguments refer
to files. Ie just as if the \-\-examine option was specified for them.
.TP
.IR \-\-set
Actually apply the file permissions. The default is to check and
warn only unless in system mode where \fICHECK_PERMISSIONS\fR
specifies the default behavior.
.TP
.IR \-\-warn
Opposite of --set, ie warn only but don't make actual changes
.TP
.IR \-\-noheader
Omit printing the output header lines.
.TP
.IR \-\-fscaps,\ \-\-no\-fscaps
Enable or disable use of fscaps. In system mode the setting of
\fIPERMISSIONS_FSCAPS\fR determines whether fscaps are on or off when this
option is not set.
.TP
.IR \-\-examine\ file
Check permissions for this file instead of all files listed in the permissions files.
.TP
.IR \-\-files\ filelist
Check permissions for the files listed in
.IR filelist
and instead of all files listed in the permissions files.
.TP
.IR \-\-root\ directory
Check files relative to the specified directory.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B chkstat --set /usr/share/permissions/permissions /usr/share/permissions/permissions.secure
.PP
parses the files /usr/share/permissions/permissions and
/usr/share/permissions/permissions and sets the
access mode and the user- and group memberships for each file listed.
.PP
.B chkstat --system /bin/ping
.PP
Run in system mode and only correct permissions of /bin/ping
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
permissions(5)
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
1996-2003 SuSE Linux AG, Nuernberg, Germany.

2008-2010 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH
.SH AUTHORS
Reinhold Sojer, Ruediger Oertel, Michael Schroeder, Ludwig Nussel
.PP
Useful changes and additions by Tobias Burnus

