.TH "PERMISSIONS" "5" "07/11/2010" "" ""
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad b
.SH "NAME"
permission - default permission settings
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
The permctl program sets permissions and ownerships according to the
permission files\.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
\- The files /usr/share/permissions/permissions\.* are line based and space delimited\.
.br
\- Lines starting with '#' are comments\.
.br
\- The first column specifies the file name\. Directory names have to
end with a slash\.
.br
\- The second column specifies the owner and group\.
.br
\- The third column specifies the file mode\.
.br
\- The special value \fB+capabilities\fR in the first column extends
the information of the previous line with file capabilites.
.PP
The file name in the first column can contain contain variables as defined in
the \fIvariables.conf\fR file.
.br
A variable expands to one or more alternative path segments that relate to the
same program or file. permctl will look in each possible path
resulting from the variable expansion and apply the permissions accordingly.
.PP
The variables.conf file will ignore empty lines, whitespace only lines or
comment lines starting with '#'. All other lines must contain variable
definitions that follow the syntax \fBmyvar = /path/1 /path/2\fR.  This
example will declare a variable identified as \fImyvar\fR that will expand to
both specified path segments.
.br
Path segments appearing in variable assignments need to be separated by
whitespace characters. The path values cannot contain whitespace themselves.
The variable identifier is limited to alphanumeric characters and the
underscore '_' character.
.PP
To reference a variable in a permissions file it needs to be dereferenced
using the \fB%{myvar}\fR syntax. The variable needs to appear as a single path
component and cannot be mixed with other literal characters. Multiple
variables per path are allowed. The following are valid variable uses:
.PP
\- %{myvar}/sub/path
.br
\- /parent/path/%{myvar}
.br
\- /parent/path/%{myvar}/sub/path
.br
\- %{var1}/path/%{var2}
.PP
While the following are invalid:
.PP
\- /prefix/pre%{myvar}suf/suffix
.br
\- /%{var}text/path
.br
\- /path/text%{var}
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
A specification like this:
.PP
\&# in variables.conf
.br
lib_dirs = /lib /lib64
.br
sub_dirs = prog_v1 prog_v2
.PP
\&# in a permissions profile
.br
%{lib_dirs}/%{sub_dirs}/libsomething.so root:root 04755
.PP
Will cause permctl to try and apply the given permission to all of the
following paths:
.PP
\- /lib/prog_v1/libsomething.so
.br
\- /lib64/prog_v1/libsomething.so
.br
\- /lib/prog_v2/libsomething.so
.br
\- /lib64/prog_v2/libsomething.so
.SH "FILES"
.sp
/usr/share/permissions/permissions
.br
/usr/share/permissions/permissions\.easy
.br
/usr/share/permissions/permissions\.secure
.br
/usr/share/permissions/permissions\.paranoid
.br
.br
/usr/share/permissions/packages\.d/*
/usr/share/permissions/permissions\.d/* (deprecated)
.br
/usr/share/permissions/variables.conf
.br
/etc/permissions\.local
.br
.SH "SEE ALSO"
permctl(8)
.sp
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Ludwig Nussel
.sp
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to https://bugzilla\.suse\.com/
.sp
