.\"
.\" SUSE man page for permctl
.\"
.\" Author: Ruediger Oertel
.\"
.TH PERMCTL 8 "2024-04-23" "SUSE Linux" "Tool to check and set file permissions"
.\"
.UC 8
.SH NAME
.\"
permctl \- Tool to check and set file permissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\"
.B permctl
.RB [OPTIONS]
.B <permission-files...>

.B permctl
.RB \-\-system
.RB [OPTIONS]
.B <files...>
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.I /usr/bin/permctl
is a tool to check and set file permissions. It was previously called chkstat,
but has been renamed to better describe its purpose.
.PP
permctl can either operate in system mode or on individually
specified permission files. In system mode, \fI/etc/sysconfig/security\fR
determines which level to use and whether to actually apply
permission changes.
.PP
.\"
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
.IR \-\-system
Run in system mode. Parses \fI/etc/sysconfig/security\fR to
determine which security level to use (\fIPERMISSION_SECURITY\fR)
and whether to set or merely warn about permission changes
(\fICHECK_PERMISSIONS\fR). In system mode non-option arguments refer
to files. Ie just as if the \-\-examine option was specified for them.
.TP
.IR \-\-set
Actually apply the file permissions. The default is to check and
warn only unless in system mode where \fICHECK_PERMISSIONS\fR
specifies the default behavior.
.TP
.IR \-\-warn
Opposite of --set, ie warn only but don't make actual changes
.TP
.IR \-\-noheader
Omit printing the output header lines.
.TP
.IR \-\-fscaps,\ \-\-no\-fscaps
Enable or disable use of fscaps. In system mode the setting of
\fIPERMISSIONS_FSCAPS\fR determines whether fscaps are on or off when this
option is not set.
.TP
.IR \-\-examine\ file
Check permissions for this file instead of all files listed in the permissions files.
.TP
.IR \-\-files\ filelist
Check permissions for the files listed in
.IR filelist
and instead of all files listed in the permissions files.
.TP
.IR \-\-root\ directory
Check files relative to the specified directory.
.PP
.SH "ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES"
.B PERMCTL_ALLOW_INSECURE_MODE_IF_NO_PROC
Allow to operate without mounted /proc filesystem. This is an unsafe mode that must only
be used in controlled environments where unprivileged users can't influence filesystem
operation.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.B permctl --set /usr/share/permissions/permissions /usr/share/permissions/permissions.secure
.PP
parses the files /usr/share/permissions/permissions and
/usr/share/permissions/permissions and sets the
access mode and the user- and group memberships for each file listed.
.PP
.B permctl --system /bin/ping
.PP
Run in system mode and only correct permissions of /bin/ping
.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.sp
permissions(5)
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
1996-2003 SuSE Linux AG, Nuernberg, Germany.

2008-2019 SUSE LINUX Products GmbH

2019-2024 SUSE Software Solutions Germany GmbH
.SH AUTHORS
Reinhold Sojer, Ruediger Oertel, Michael Schroeder, Ludwig Nussel
.PP
Useful changes and additions by Tobias Burnus
.PP
Major refactoring by Matthias Gerstner, Malte Kraus
